Update minadocs to reflect 1.4.0 release and OS support (#573)
o1-labs/docs2: docs/node-operators/getting-started.mdx

# Getting Started

<Subhead>

> Welcome to Mina! This section walks you through the process of setting up a Mina node, provides instructions on how to generate a keypair for use with the network, connect to the network, and begin producing blocks.

Reviewer: Apply [present tense](https://developers.google.com/style/tense)

## Requirements

> **Software**: Supported environments include macOS, Linux (Debian 10, 11, 12 and Ubuntu 20.04 LTS), and any host machine with Docker. 

Reviewer: Remove time-bound content to create [timeless documentation](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation)

basically, no "future" or "currently" or "now"

> **Processor**: Only AMD64 CPU architecture is supported.

Reviewer: @amc-ie  is processor the right term here? I didn't want to include AMD64 in the software section

**Hardware**: Sending and receiving MINA does not require any special hardware. 

Running a block producer on the Mina network requires at least:

- 8-core processor
- 16 GB of RAM

> More RAM is required to run a SNARK worker node at the same time as a block producer.

Reviewer: did you know we have a https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/wiki/Word-list that is part of our content guidance that governs the terminology, voice and tone, and [style guidelines](https://github.com/o1-labs/docs2/wiki/docs-style-guide).

**Network**: At least 1 Mbps connection

**VM Instances**:

O(1) Labs has tested running nodes on several cloud providers. We recommend the following instances for basic node operator needs. Custom requirements and different cost constraints might require a different instance type.

- AWS [c5.2xlarge](https://www.ec2instances.info/?filter=c5.2xl&region=us-west-2&cost_duration=daily&selected=c5.2xlarge)
- GCP [c2-standard-8](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types)
- Azure [Standard_F8s_v2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/sizes-compute#fsv2-series-1)
- Digital Ocean [c-8-16gib](https://cloud.digitalocean.com/droplets/new?size=c-8-16gib)

Check out the [Connecting to the Mina Testnet (Google Cloud)](https://youtu.be/M9lE2lgyVEo) video for steps to configure your Mina node on Google Cloud.

## Installation

> To install the latest [Mainnet **Stable** Release 1.4.0](https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina/releases/tag/1.4.0), use the installation steps for your environment.

Reviewer: Use [descriptive link text](https://developers.google.com/style/link-text) that matches the page we send our readers to

The binary download is around 1 GB, so the installation might take a few minutes.

To discover and install pre-release (Beta) builds, see the [Mina Releases](https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina/releases) page on GitHub.

### Ubuntu and Debian

> To set up the new Debian `stable` repository and install the latest binary version:

Reviewer: does install happen before set up? then we can reverse the order of this intro phrase

```
echo "deb [trusted=yes] http://packages.o1test.net $(lsb_release -cs) stable" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mina.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y curl unzip mina-mainnet=1.4.0-c980ba8
```

To verify the mina daemon installation, run:

- `mina version`

The expected output is `Commit c980ba87c3417f40a7081225dfe7478c5ee70fd7 on branch master`.

### Windows

> Windows is not natively supported. Instead, use the [Docker instructions](./#docker). 

Reviewer: another example of time-bound content, let's just say what is it is and later the docs get updated when something is supported

### Docker

Docker is a cross-platform tool. You can download and install Docker on multiple platforms. 

Use the Docker installation instructions for your platform on [Get Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/). After Docker is installed, follow the [Connect to the Mina Network](/node-operators/connecting-to-the-network#docker) instructions.

### Build from source

On Linux or macOS operating systems, you can experiment with [Building Mina](https://github.com/MinaProtocol/mina/blob/master/README-dev.md#building-mina) from source code.

Other operating systems haven't been tested thoroughly and might have issues. You can share logs and get troubleshooting help in the [Mina Protocol Discord server](https://discord.gg/minaprotocol).

## Set up port forwarding and firewalls

> If you are running a firewall, you must allow traffic on TCP port 8302.

Reviewer: we repeat 8302 port ... is this because firewall is different than port forwarding? (forgive my ignorance)

> Unless the `-external-ip YOUR_IP` flag is provided, the daemon uses HTTPS (443) and HTTP (80) to determine its own IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `-external-ip YOUR_IP` flag is not provided, the daemon uses HTTPS (443) and HTTP (80) to determine its own IP address.
```

Enable port forwarding on your router to allow inbound traffic to the following ports through your **external** IP address:

- TCP port `8302`

> - To use the GraphQL service, expose TCP port `3085`

Reviewer: if you use GraphQL, then port 3085 is not optional, right?
